now Abraham was old well advanced in age
now Abraham was old well advanced in age and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all
and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all
and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things so Abraham said to the oldest
things so Abraham said to the oldest
things so Abraham said to the oldest servant of his house who ruled over all
servant of his house who ruled over all
servant of his house who ruled over all that he had please put your hand under
that he had please put your hand under
that he had please put your hand under my thigh and I will make you swear by
my thigh and I will make you swear by
my thigh and I will make you swear by the Lord the God of heaven and the god
the Lord the God of heaven and the god
the Lord the God of heaven and the god of Earth that you will not take a wife
of Earth that you will not take a wife
of Earth that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the
for my son from the daughters of the
for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites among the white well but you
Canaanites among the white well but you
Canaanites among the white well but you shall go to my country unto my family
shall go to my country unto my family
shall go to my country unto my family and take a wife for my son Isaac and the
and take a wife for my son Isaac and the
and take a wife for my son Isaac and the servant said to him perhaps the woman
servant said to him perhaps the woman
servant said to him perhaps the woman will not be willing to follow me to this
will not be willing to follow me to this
will not be willing to follow me to this land must I take your son back to the
land must I take your son back to the
land must I take your son back to the land from which you came but Abraham
land from which you came but Abraham
land from which you came but Abraham said to him beware that you do not take
said to him beware that you do not take
said to him beware that you do not take my son back there the Lord God of heaven
my son back there the Lord God of heaven
my son back there the Lord God of heaven took me from my father's house and from
took me from my father's house and from
took me from my father's house and from the land of my family and who spoke to
the land of my family and who spoke to
the land of my family and who spoke to me and swore to me saying to your
me and swore to me saying to your
me and swore to me saying to your descendants I give this land he will
descendants I give this land he will
descendants I give this land he will send his angel before you and you shall
send his angel before you and you shall
send his angel before you and you shall take a wife for my son from there and if
take a wife for my son from there and if
take a wife for my son from there and if the woman is not willing to follow you
the woman is not willing to follow you
the woman is not willing to follow you then you will be released from this oath
then you will be released from this oath
then you will be released from this oath only do not take my son back there so
only do not take my son back there so
only do not take my son back there so the servant put his hand under the thigh
the servant put his hand under the thigh
the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swore to him
of Abraham his master and swore to him
of Abraham his master and swore to him concerning this matter then the servant
concerning this matter then the servant
concerning this matter then the servant took ten of his master's camels and
took ten of his master's camels and
took ten of his master's camels and departed for all his master's goods were
departed for all his master's goods were
departed for all his master's goods were in his hand and he arose and went to
in his hand and he arose and went to
in his hand and he arose and went to Mesopotamia to the city of Nahor and he
Mesopotamia to the city of Nahor and he
Mesopotamia to the city of Nahor and he made his camels kneel down outside the
made his camels kneel down outside the
made his camels kneel down outside the city by a well of water at evening time
city by a well of water at evening time
city by a well of water at evening time the time when women go out to draw water
the time when women go out to draw water
the time when women go out to draw water o Lord God of my master Abraham please
o Lord God of my master Abraham please
o Lord God of my master Abraham please give me success this day and show
give me success this day and show
give me success this day and show kindness to my master Abraham behold
kindness to my master Abraham behold
kindness to my master Abraham behold here I stand by the well of water and
here I stand by the well of water and
here I stand by the well of water and the daughters of the men of the city are
the daughters of the men of the city are
the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water
coming out to draw water
coming out to draw water now let it be that the young woman to
now let it be that the young woman to
now let it be that the young woman to whom I say please let down your pitcher
whom I say please let down your pitcher
whom I say please let down your pitcher that I may drink and she says drink and
that I may drink and she says drink and
that I may drink and she says drink and I will also give your camels a drink let
I will also give your camels a drink let
I will also give your camels a drink let her be the one you have appointed for
her be the one you have appointed for
her be the one you have appointed for your servant Isaac and by this I will
your servant Isaac and by this I will
your servant Isaac and by this I will know that you have shown kindness to my
know that you have shown kindness to my
know that you have shown kindness to my master and it happened before he had
master and it happened before he had
master and it happened before he had finished speaking that behold Rebekah
finished speaking that behold Rebekah
finished speaking that behold Rebekah who was born to be fuel son of Milcah
who was born to be fuel son of Milcah
who was born to be fuel son of Milcah the wife of Nahor Abraham's brother came
the wife of Nahor Abraham's brother came
the wife of Nahor Abraham's brother came out with her pitcher on her shoulder now
out with her pitcher on her shoulder now
out with her pitcher on her shoulder now the young woman was very beautiful to
the young woman was very beautiful to
the young woman was very beautiful to behold a virgin no man had known
behold a virgin no man had known
behold a virgin no man had known and she went down to the well filled her
and she went down to the well filled her
and she went down to the well filled her picture and came up and the servant ran
picture and came up and the servant ran
picture and came up and the servant ran to meet her and said please let me drink
to meet her and said please let me drink
to meet her and said please let me drink a little water from your pitcher drink
a little water from your pitcher drink
a little water from your pitcher drink my lord
my lord
my lord then she quickly let her pitcher down to
then she quickly let her pitcher down to
then she quickly let her pitcher down to her hand and gave him a drink and when
her hand and gave him a drink and when
her hand and gave him a drink and when she had finished giving him a drink she
she had finished giving him a drink she
she had finished giving him a drink she said
said
said he will draw water for your camels also
he will draw water for your camels also
he will draw water for your camels also until they have finished drinking then
until they have finished drinking then
until they have finished drinking then she quickly emptied her pitcher into the
she quickly emptied her pitcher into the
she quickly emptied her pitcher into the trough ran back to the well to draw
trough ran back to the well to draw
trough ran back to the well to draw water and drew for all his camels and
water and drew for all his camels and
water and drew for all his camels and the man wandering at her remained silent
the man wandering at her remained silent
the man wandering at her remained silent so as to know whether the Lord had made
so as to know whether the Lord had made
so as to know whether the Lord had made his journey prosperous or not so it was
his journey prosperous or not so it was
his journey prosperous or not so it was when the camels had finished drinking
when the camels had finished drinking
when the camels had finished drinking that the man took a golden nose ring
that the man took a golden nose ring
that the man took a golden nose ring weighing half a shekel and two bracelets
weighing half a shekel and two bracelets
weighing half a shekel and two bracelets for her wrists weighing 10 shekels of
for her wrists weighing 10 shekels of
for her wrists weighing 10 shekels of gold and said whose daughter are you
gold and said whose daughter are you
gold and said whose daughter are you tell me please is there room in your
tell me please is there room in your
tell me please is there room in your father's house for us to lodge I am the
father's house for us to lodge I am the
father's house for us to lodge I am the daughter of Bethuel milk a son whom she
daughter of Bethuel milk a son whom she
daughter of Bethuel milk a son whom she bore to Nayer we have both straw and
bore to Nayer we have both straw and
bore to Nayer we have both straw and feet enough in room to lodge then the
feet enough in room to lodge then the
feet enough in room to lodge then the man bowed down his head and worshiped
man bowed down his head and worshiped
man bowed down his head and worshiped the Lord blessed be the Lord God of my
the Lord blessed be the Lord God of my
the Lord blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham who has not forsaken his
master Abraham who has not forsaken his
master Abraham who has not forsaken his mercy and his truth toward my master as
mercy and his truth toward my master as
mercy and his truth toward my master as for me being on the way the Lord led me
for me being on the way the Lord led me
for me being on the way the Lord led me to the house of my Master's brethren so
to the house of my Master's brethren so
to the house of my Master's brethren so the young woman ran and told her
the young woman ran and told her
the young woman ran and told her mother's household these things now
mother's household these things now
mother's household these things now Rebecca had a brother whose name was
Rebecca had a brother whose name was
Rebecca had a brother whose name was Layden and Laban ran out to the man by
Layden and Laban ran out to the man by
Layden and Laban ran out to the man by the well so it came to pass when he saw
the well so it came to pass when he saw
the well so it came to pass when he saw the nose ring and the bracelets on his
the nose ring and the bracelets on his
the nose ring and the bracelets on his sister's wrists and when he heard the
sister's wrists and when he heard the
sister's wrists and when he heard the words of his sister Rebekah saying thus
words of his sister Rebekah saying thus
words of his sister Rebekah saying thus the man spoke to me but he went to the
the man spoke to me but he went to the
the man spoke to me but he went to the matter
matter
matter and there he stood by the cameras at the
and there he stood by the cameras at the
and there he stood by the cameras at the well come in ho blessed of the Lord why
well come in ho blessed of the Lord why
well come in ho blessed of the Lord why do you stand outside for I've prepared
do you stand outside for I've prepared
do you stand outside for I've prepared the house in a place for the camels from
the house in a place for the camels from
the house in a place for the camels from the man came to the house and he
the man came to the house and he
the man came to the house and he unloaded the camels and provided straw
unloaded the camels and provided straw
unloaded the camels and provided straw and feed for the camels and water to
and feed for the camels and water to
and feed for the camels and water to wash his feet and the feet of a man who
wash his feet and the feet of a man who
wash his feet and the feet of a man who were with him food was set before him to
were with him food was set before him to
were with him food was set before him to eat but he said I will not eat until I
eat but he said I will not eat until I
eat but he said I will not eat until I have told about my errand speak on
have told about my errand speak on
have told about my errand speak on I am Abraham's servant the Lord has
I am Abraham's servant the Lord has
I am Abraham's servant the Lord has blessed my master greatly and he has
blessed my master greatly and he has
blessed my master greatly and he has become great and he has given him flocks
become great and he has given him flocks
become great and he has given him flocks and herds silver and gold male and
and herds silver and gold male and
and herds silver and gold male and female servants and camels and donkeys
female servants and camels and donkeys
female servants and camels and donkeys and Sarah my Master's wife bore a son to
and Sarah my Master's wife bore a son to
and Sarah my Master's wife bore a son to my master when she was old and to him he
my master when she was old and to him he
my master when she was old and to him he has given all that he has now my master
has given all that he has now my master
has given all that he has now my master made me swear saying you shall not take
made me swear saying you shall not take
made me swear saying you shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of
a wife for my son from the daughters of
a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites in whose land I dwell but
the Canaanites in whose land I dwell but
the Canaanites in whose land I dwell but you shall go to my father's house and to
you shall go to my father's house and to
you shall go to my father's house and to my family
my family
my family and take a wife for my son and I said to
and take a wife for my son and I said to
and take a wife for my son and I said to my master perhaps the woman will not
my master perhaps the woman will not
my master perhaps the woman will not follow me but he said to me the Lord
follow me but he said to me the Lord
follow me but he said to me the Lord before whom I walk will send his angel
before whom I walk will send his angel
before whom I walk will send his angel with you and prosper your way and you
with you and prosper your way and you
with you and prosper your way and you shall take a wife for my son from my
shall take a wife for my son from my
shall take a wife for my son from my family and from my father's house you
family and from my father's house you
family and from my father's house you will be clear from this oath when you
will be clear from this oath when you
will be clear from this oath when you arrived among my family for if they will
arrived among my family for if they will
arrived among my family for if they will not give her to you then you will be
not give her to you then you will be
not give her to you then you will be released from my oath and this day I
released from my oath and this day I
released from my oath and this day I came to the well and said O Lord God of
came to the well and said O Lord God of
came to the well and said O Lord God of my master Abraham if you will now
my master Abraham if you will now
my master Abraham if you will now prosper the way in which I go behold I
prosper the way in which I go behold I
prosper the way in which I go behold I stand by the well of water and it shall
stand by the well of water and it shall
stand by the well of water and it shall come to pass that when the virgin comes
come to pass that when the virgin comes
come to pass that when the virgin comes out to draw water and I say to her
out to draw water and I say to her
out to draw water and I say to her please give me a little water from your
please give me a little water from your
please give me a little water from your pitcher to drink and she says to me
pitcher to drink and she says to me
pitcher to drink and she says to me drink and I will draw for your camels
drink and I will draw for your camels
drink and I will draw for your camels also let her be the woman whom the Lord
also let her be the woman whom the Lord
also let her be the woman whom the Lord has appointed for my master's son
has appointed for my master's son
has appointed for my master's son but before I had finished speaking in my
but before I had finished speaking in my
but before I had finished speaking in my heart that was Rebecca coming out with
heart that was Rebecca coming out with
heart that was Rebecca coming out with her picture on her shoulder and she went
her picture on her shoulder and she went
her picture on her shoulder and she went down to the well and drew water and I
down to the well and drew water and I
down to the well and drew water and I said to her please let me drink and she
said to her please let me drink and she
said to her please let me drink and she made haste and let her pitcher down from
made haste and let her pitcher down from
made haste and let her pitcher down from her shoulder and said drink and I will
her shoulder and said drink and I will
her shoulder and said drink and I will give your camels a drink also so I drank
give your camels a drink also so I drank
give your camels a drink also so I drank and she gave the camels a drink also
and she gave the camels a drink also
and she gave the camels a drink also then I asked her and said whose daughter
then I asked her and said whose daughter
then I asked her and said whose daughter are you and she said the daughter of
are you and she said the daughter of
are you and she said the daughter of Beth you'll nail our son who milk a boy
Beth you'll nail our son who milk a boy
Beth you'll nail our son who milk a boy to him so I put the nose ring on her
to him so I put the nose ring on her
to him so I put the nose ring on her nose and the bracelets on her wrists and
nose and the bracelets on her wrists and
nose and the bracelets on her wrists and I bowed my head and worshiped the Lord
I bowed my head and worshiped the Lord
I bowed my head and worshiped the Lord and blessed the Lord God of my master
and blessed the Lord God of my master
and blessed the Lord God of my master Abraham who had led me in the way of
Abraham who had led me in the way of
Abraham who had led me in the way of truth to take the daughter of my
truth to take the daughter of my
truth to take the daughter of my Master's brother for his son now if you
Master's brother for his son now if you
Master's brother for his son now if you will deal kindly and truly with my
will deal kindly and truly with my
will deal kindly and truly with my master tell me and if not tell me that I
master tell me and if not tell me that I
master tell me and if not tell me that I may turn to the right hand or to the
may turn to the right hand or to the
may turn to the right hand or to the left then Laban and Beth you'll answered
left then Laban and Beth you'll answered
left then Laban and Beth you'll answered the thing comes from the Lord we cannot
the thing comes from the Lord we cannot
the thing comes from the Lord we cannot speak to you either bad or good here is
speak to you either bad or good here is
speak to you either bad or good here is Rebecca before you take her and go and
Rebecca before you take her and go and
Rebecca before you take her and go and let her be your master's son's wife as
let her be your master's son's wife as
let her be your master's son's wife as the Lord has spoken and it came to pass
the Lord has spoken and it came to pass
the Lord has spoken and it came to pass when Abraham's servant heard their words
when Abraham's servant heard their words
when Abraham's servant heard their words that he worshipped the Lord bowing
that he worshipped the Lord bowing
that he worshipped the Lord bowing himself to the earth then the servant
himself to the earth then the servant
himself to the earth then the servant brought out jewellery of silver jewelry
brought out jewellery of silver jewelry
brought out jewellery of silver jewelry of gold and clothing and gave them to
of gold and clothing and gave them to
of gold and clothing and gave them to Rebecca he also gave precious things to
Rebecca he also gave precious things to
Rebecca he also gave precious things to her brother and to her mother and he and
her brother and to her mother and he and
her brother and to her mother and he and the man who were with him ate and drank
the man who were with him ate and drank
the man who were with him ate and drank and stayed all night then they arose in
and stayed all night then they arose in
and stayed all night then they arose in the morning send me away to my master
the morning send me away to my master
the morning send me away to my master but her brother and her mother said let
but her brother and her mother said let
but her brother and her mother said let the young woman stay with us a few days
the young woman stay with us a few days
the young woman stay with us a few days at least ten after that she may go do
at least ten after that she may go do
at least ten after that she may go do not hinder me since the Lord has
not hinder me since the Lord has
not hinder me since the Lord has prospered my way send me away so that I
prospered my way send me away so that I
prospered my way send me away so that I may go to my master we will call the
may go to my master we will call the
may go to my master we will call the young woman and ask her personally then
young woman and ask her personally then
young woman and ask her personally then they called Rebecca and said to her will
they called Rebecca and said to her will
they called Rebecca and said to her will you go with this man I will go so they
you go with this man I will go so they
you go with this man I will go so they sent away Rebecca their sister and her
sent away Rebecca their sister and her
sent away Rebecca their sister and her nurse and Abraham's servant and his men
nurse and Abraham's servant and his men
nurse and Abraham's servant and his men and they blessed Rebecca and said to her
and they blessed Rebecca and said to her
and they blessed Rebecca and said to her our sister may you become the mother of
our sister may you become the mother of
our sister may you become the mother of thousands of ten thousands and may your
thousands of ten thousands and may your
thousands of ten thousands and may your descendants possess the gates of those
descendants possess the gates of those
descendants possess the gates of those who hate them then Rebecca and her maids
who hate them then Rebecca and her maids
who hate them then Rebecca and her maids arose and they rode on the camels and
arose and they rode on the camels and
arose and they rode on the camels and followed the man so the servant took
followed the man so the servant took
followed the man so the servant took Rebecca and departed
now Isaac came from the way of Birla
now Isaac came from the way of Birla high ROI for he dwelt in the south and
high ROI for he dwelt in the south and
high ROI for he dwelt in the south and Isaac went out to meditate in the field
Isaac went out to meditate in the field
Isaac went out to meditate in the field in the evening and he lifted his eyes
in the evening and he lifted his eyes
in the evening and he lifted his eyes and looked and there the camels were
and looked and there the camels were
and looked and there the camels were coming then Rebecca lifted her eyes and
coming then Rebecca lifted her eyes and
coming then Rebecca lifted her eyes and when she saw Isaac she dismounted from
when she saw Isaac she dismounted from
when she saw Isaac she dismounted from her camel for she had said to the
her camel for she had said to the
her camel for she had said to the servant who is this man walking in the
servant who is this man walking in the
servant who is this man walking in the field to meet us
field to meet us
field to meet us it is my master so she took a veil and
it is my master so she took a veil and
it is my master so she took a veil and covered herself and the servant told
covered herself and the servant told
covered herself and the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done
Isaac all the things that he had done
Isaac all the things that he had done then Isaac brought her into his mother
then Isaac brought her into his mother
then Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent and he took Rebecca and she
Sarah's tent and he took Rebecca and she
Sarah's tent and he took Rebecca and she became his wife and he loved her so
became his wife and he loved her so
became his wife and he loved her so Isaac was comforted after his mother's
Isaac was comforted after his mother's
Isaac was comforted after his mother's death
death
death [Music]
[Music]
[Music] you